docs/src/site/learning_resources.md, before:

---
layout: default
title:  "Learning Resources"
section: "learning_resources"
---

Here are some various learning resources concerning optics. Feel free to send a PR to add other learning material.

### Presentations
-   [Lenses: compositional data access and manipulation](https://skillsmatter.com/skillscasts/4251-lenses-compositional-data-access-and-manipulation):
haskell `Lens` implementation (by [Simon Peyton Jones](https://github.com/simonpj))
-   [Lenses: A Functional Imperative](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=efv0SQNde5Q): scalaz `Lens` usage with `State` to write 
functional code that looks like imperative one (by [Edward Kmett](https://github.com/ekmett))

### Slides
-   [Optics with Monocle: Modeling The Part and The Whole](http://www.slideshare.net/IlanGodik/optics-with-monocle-modeling-the-part-and-the-whole)
(by [Ilan Godik](https://github.com/NightRa))
-   [Beyond Lenses](http://www.slideshare.net/JulienTruffaut/beyond-scala-lens): how `Iso`, `Prism`, `Lens` and `Optional`
relate to each other (by [Julien Truffaut](https://github.com/julien-truffaut))

### Blog Posts
-   [Lens implementation](http://functional-wizardry.blogspot.co.uk/2014/02/lens-implementation-part-1.html): Van Laarhoven 
`Lens` implementation in scala (by [Julien Truffaut](https://github.com/julien-truffaut))

### Other Optics Libraries
-    [Haskell Lens](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/lens): library at the origin of Monocle
-    [Scalaz](https://github.com/scalaz/scalaz): `Lens` and `PLens` (for partial lens or `Optional` in Monocle)
-    [Shapeless](https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless): for boiler plate free `Lens` and `Prism` (what shapeless calls 
`Prism` is called `Optional` in Monocle).

Commit message:

Add resources in Japanese and Korean as well as Quicklens

docs/src/site/learning_resources.md, after:

---
layout: default
title:  "Learning Resources"
section: "learning_resources"
---

Here are some various learning resources concerning optics. Feel free to send a PR to add other learning material.

### Presentations
-   [Lenses: compositional data access and manipulation](https://skillsmatter.com/skillscasts/4251-lenses-compositional-data-access-and-manipulation):
haskell `Lens` implementation (by [Simon Peyton Jones](https://github.com/simonpj))
-   [Lenses: A Functional Imperative](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=efv0SQNde5Q): scalaz `Lens` usage with `State` to write 
functional code that looks like imperative one (by [Edward Kmett](https://github.com/ekmett))

### Slides
-   [Optics with Monocle: Modeling The Part and The Whole](http://www.slideshare.net/IlanGodik/optics-with-monocle-modeling-the-part-and-the-whole)
(by [Ilan Godik](https://github.com/NightRa))
-   [Beyond Lenses](http://www.slideshare.net/JulienTruffaut/beyond-scala-lens): how `Iso`, `Prism`, `Lens` and `Optional`
relate to each other (by [Julien Truffaut](https://github.com/julien-truffaut))

### Blog Posts
-   [Lens implementation](http://functional-wizardry.blogspot.co.uk/2014/02/lens-implementation-part-1.html): Van Laarhoven 
`Lens` implementation in scala (by [Julien Truffaut](https://github.com/julien-truffaut))

### Other Optics Libraries
-    [Haskell Lens](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/lens): library at the origin of Monocle
-    [Scalaz](https://github.com/scalaz/scalaz): `Lens` and `PLens` (for partial lens or `Optional` in Monocle)
-    [Shapeless](https://github.com/milessabin/shapeless): for boiler plate free `Lens` and `Prism` (what shapeless calls 
`Prism` is called `Optional` in Monocle)
-    [Quicklens](https://github.com/adamw/quicklens)

### Resources in Japanese
-    [Monocleとかいうのがありまして](http://aoino.hatenablog.com/entry/2014/12/23/050932): Introduction to Monocle 
(by [Naoki Aoyama](https://github.com/aoiroaoino))
-    [MonocleのapplyLensメソッドの使い方](http://aoino.hatenablog.com/entry/2015/06/15/012432): `ApplyXXX` usage
(by [Naoki Aoyama](https://github.com/aoiroaoino))

### Resources in Korean
-    [Scala Lens Library](http://1ambda.github.io/scala-monocle-tutorial/): Introduction to Monocle (by [Hoon](https://github.com/1ambda))
